# Inaugural_State_of_Union_Sentiment

Project Title: Inaugural and State of the Union Sentiment Analysis

Project Description: This project is a sentiment analysis of the Inaugural and State of the Union addresses of the Presidents of the United States. The project uses the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) to analyze the sentiment of the addresses. The project uses the VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoner) library to analyze the sentiment of the addresses. After the gathering of the sentiment scores, the project uses the Pandas library to tabulate the data, and the Seaborn library to visualize the sentiment scores of the addresses, both aggregately and over time.

Project Motivation: In my Coding for Cognitive Science class, I had the opportunity to do a final project in whatever field that interested me. And as a Psychological Sciences major at UConn, one possibility that stood out to me was linguistic analysis, and initially, I intended on doing a project on the sentiment of child language acquisition, using the CHILDES corpora. However, I ran into complications with importing and accessing the CHILDES corpora, so I shifted my focus but remained in the realm of sentiment analysis. During my search, I came across the Inaugural and State of the Union addresses of the Presidents of the United States from NLTK, and I thought that it would be interesting to analyze the sentiment of the addresses and see if there were any trends in the sentiment of the addresses, from president-to-president and over time. Even though this wasn't the project that I initially foresaw myself doing, I am still very happy with the project, and I learned a lot more about data cleaning and visualization, and I hope that you enjoy it as well.
